---
layout: post
category: 数据运维
title:  "CDH 可以安装的软件列表"
tag: [hadoop]
excerpt: 收集cdh可以安装的软件列表。
---

## 摘要

收集cdh可以安装的软件列表。

### HBase

Apache HBase provides random, real-time, read/write access to large data sets (requires HDFS and ZooKeeper).

### HDFS

Apache Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) is the primary storage system used by Hadoop applications. HDFS creates multiple replicas of data blocks and distributes them on compute hosts throughout a cluster to enable reliable, extremely rapid computations.

### Hive

Hive is a data warehouse system that offers a SQL-like language called HiveQL.

### Hue

Hue is a graphical user interface to work with Cloudera's Distribution Including Apache Hadoop (requires HDFS, MapReduce, and Hive).

### Impala

Impala provides a real-time SQL query interface for data stored in HDFS and HBase. Impala requres Hive service and shares Hive Metastore with Hue.

### Isilon

EMC Isilon is a distributed filesystem.

### Key-Value Store Indexer

Key-Value Store Indexer listens for changes in data inside tables contained in HBase and indexes them using Solr.

### MapReduce

Apache Hadoop MapReduce supports distributed computing on large data sets across your cluster (requires HDFS). YARN (MapReduce 2 Included) is recommended instead. MapReduce is included for backward compatibility.

### Oozie

Oozie is a workflow coordination service to manage data processing jobs on your cluster.

### Solr

Solr is a distributed service for indexing and searching data stored in HDFS.

### Spark

Apache Spark is an open source cluster computing system. This service runs Spark as an application on YARN.

### Sqoop 2

Sqoop is a tool designed for efficiently transferring bulk data between Apache Hadoop and structured datastores such as relational databases. The version supported by Cloudera Manager is Sqoop 2.

### YARN (MR2 Included)

Apache Hadoop MapReduce 2.0 (MRv2), or YARN, is a data computation framework that supports MapReduce applications (requires HDFS).

### ZooKeeper

Apache ZooKeeper is a centralized service for maintaining and synchronizing configuration data.
